# Build an ML Pipeline for Short-term Rental Prices in NYC

You are working for a property management company renting rooms and properties for short periods of time on various rental platforms. You need to estimate the typical price for a given property based on the price of similar properties. Your company receives new data in bulk every week. The model needs to be retrained with the same cadence, necessitating an end-to-end pipeline that can be reused.

In this project you will build such a pipeline. Here is a diagram of the ML pipeline containing all components and resulting artifacts that you are going to build:

## TODO: ADD DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE !!

### Links to W&B project and Github repository

```bash
TODO: Add link to W&B project
https://github.com/richardvlas/First-MLflow-Pipeline
```

## Project Structure
The following represents the structure of folders and files contained in the project after runing the pipeline.

> Note: A lot of files generated by wandb and Mlflow were not pushed to this repo to keep only the code of the ML pipeline. Only artifacts generated are kept.

```bash
TODO: Add project structure
```

## Preliminary steps
### Clone the Project
Clone the repository locally so that you can use it:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/richardvlas/ML-pipeline-short-term-rental-prices-NYC.git
```
and go into the repository:

```bash
cd ML-pipeline-short-term-rental-prices-NYC
```

### Create environment
Make sure to have conda installed and ready, then create a new environment using the `environment.yml` file provided in the root of the repository and activate it:

```bash
conda env create -f environment.yml
conda activate nyc_airbnb_dev 
```

### Get API key for Weights and Biases

Let's make sure you are logged in to Weights & Biases. Get your API key from W&B by going to https://wandb.ai/authorize and click on the + icon (copy to clipboard), then paste your key into this command:

```bash
$ wandb login [your API key]
```

You should see a message similar to:

```
wandb: Appending key for api.wandb.ai to your netrc file: /home/[your username]/.netrc
```

### Cookie cutter
In order to make your job a little easier, you are provided a cookie cutter template that you can use to create 
stubs for new pipeline components. It is not required that you use this, but it might save you from a bit of 
boilerplate code. Just run the cookiecutter and enter the required information, and a new component 
will be created including the `conda.yml` file, the `MLproject` file as well as the script. You can then modify these
as needed, instead of starting from scratch.
For example:

```bash
cookiecutter cookie-mlflow-step -o src
```

```bash
step_name [step_name]: basic_cleaning
script_name [run.py]: run.py
job_type [my_step]: basic_cleaning
short_description [My step]: This steps cleans the data
long_description [An example of a step using MLflow and Weights & Biases]: Performs basic cleaning on the data and save the results in Weights & Biases
parameters [parameter1,parameter2]: parameter1,parameter2,parameter3
```

This will create a step called ``basic_cleaning`` under the directory ``src``. Type this command:

```bash
ls src/basic_cleaning/
```

which returns the following structure:

```bash
conda.yml  MLproject  run.py
```


You can now modify the script (``run.py``), the conda environment (``conda.yml``) and the project definition 
(``MLproject``) as you please.

The script ``run.py`` will receive the input parameters ``parameter1``, ``parameter2``,
``parameter3`` and it will be called like:

```bash
mlflow run src/step_name -P parameter1=1 -P parameter2=2 -P parameter3="test"
```

## The Configuration
The parameters controlling the pipeline are defined in the `config.yaml` file defined in the root of the repository. We will use Hydra to manage this configuration file. 

Open this file and get familiar with its content. Remember: this file is only read by the `main.py` script (i.e., the pipeline) and its content is available with the go function in `main.py` as the config dictionary. For example, the name of the project is contained in the `project_name` key under the `main` section in the configuration file. It can be accessed from the `go` function as `config["main"]["project_name"]`.

> NOTE: do NOT hardcode any parameter when writing the pipeline. All the parameters should be accessed from the configuration file.

## Running the entire pipeline or just a selection of steps
In order to run the pipeline when you are developing, you need to be in the root of the starter kit, then you can execute as usual:

```bash
mlflow run .
```

This will run the entire pipeline.

When developing it is useful to be able to run one step at the time. Say you want to run only the `download` step. The `main.py` is written so that the steps are defined at the top of the file, in the `_steps` list, and can be selected by using the `steps` parameter on the command line:

```bash
mlflow run . -P steps=download
```

You can override any other parameter in the configuration file using the Hydra syntax, by providing it as a `hydra_options` parameter. For example, say that we want to set the parameter modeling -> random_forest -> n_estimators to 10 and etl -> min_price to 50:

```bash
mlflow run . \
-P steps=download,basic_cleaning \
-P hydra_options="modeling.random_forest.n_estimators=10 etl.min_price=50"
```

## In case of errors
When you make an error writing your `conda.yml` file, you might end up with an environment for the pipeline or one of the components that is corrupted. Most of the time `mlflow` realizes that and creates a new one every time you try to fix the problem. However, sometimes this does not happen, especially if the problem was in the `pip` dependencies. In that case, you might want to clean up all conda environments created by `mlflow` and try again. In order to do so, you can get a list of the environments you are about to remove by executing:

```bash
conda info --envs | grep mlflow | cut -f1 -d" "
```

If you are ok with that list, execute this command to clean them up:

> NOTE: this will remove ALL the environments with a name starting with mlflow. Use at your own risk

```bash
for e in $(conda info --envs | grep mlflow | cut -f1 -d" "); do conda uninstall --name $e --all -y;done
```

This will iterate over all the environments created by `mlflow` and remove them.









